Low-disk health emails active by default for Project Admins (#1350)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: src/development/troubleshoot.md

Because storage is a billable component of your project, only the project's owner can make this change.

## Low disk space

When you receive a [low-disk space notification](/administrtion/integrations/notifications.md) for your application container: 

### Check your application's disk space

Run `platform ssh` within your project folder to login to the container's shell.  Then use the `df` command to check the available writable space for your application.

```
df -h -x tmpfs -x squashfs | grep -v /run/shared
```

This command will show the writable mounts on the system, similar to:

```
Filesystem                                                       Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/mapper/platform-syd7waxqy4n5q--master--7rqtwti----app       2.0G   37M  1.9G   2% /mnt
/dev/mapper/platform-tmp--syd7waxqy4n5q--master--7rqtwti----app  3.9G   42M  3.8G   2% /tmp
```

> * The first entry shows the storage device that is shared by all of your persistent disk mounts.

Author: ```suggestion
* The first line shows the storage device that is shared by all of your persistent disk mounts.
```

  While `Mounted on` reports the disk space common to [all defined mounts](/configuration/app/storage.md#mounts) in a single pool, it only shows one directory path.
  
  In this example, the application container has allocated 2 GB of the total disk space. From those 2GB available for the application, 2% (37 MB) is used by all defined mounts.

> * The second entry is the operating system `temporary directory`, which is always the same size.

Author: ```suggestion
* The second line is the operating system `temporary directory`, which is always the same size.
```

> * The first entry shows the storage device that is shared by all of your persistent disk mounts.
>   While `Mounted on` reports the disk space common to [all defined mounts](/configuration/app/storage.md#mounts) in a single pool, it only shows one directory path.
>   
>   In this example, the application container has allocated 2 GB of the total disk space. From those 2GB available for the application, 2% (37 MB) is used by all defined mounts.
> 
> * The second entry is the operating system `temporary directory`, which is always the same size.
>   While you can write to the `/tmp` directory files there are not guaranteed to persist and may be deleted on deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first line shows the storage device that is shared by all of your [persistent disk mounts](/configuration/app/storage.md#mounts).  All defined mounts use a common storage pool.  In this example, the application container has allocated 2 GB of the total disk space. Of those 2GB, 2% (37 MB) is used by all defined mounts.

The second line is the operating system `temporary directory`, which is always the same size.
  While you can write to the `/tmp` directory files there are not guaranteed to persist and may be deleted on deploy.
```

See [Let's Encrypt limits and branch names](/configuration/routes/https.md#lets-encrypt-limits-and-branch-names) for a more detailed breakdown of this issue.  

## Total disk usage exceeds project maximum

One of the billable parameters in your project's settings is Storage.  This global storage pool is allocated among the various services and application containers in your project via the `disk` parameter.  The sum of all `disk` parameters in your project's YAML config files must be less than or equal to the global project storage number.

```
Error: Resources exceeding plan limit; disk: 8192.00MB > 5120.00MB; try removing a service, or add more storage to your plan
```

This means that you have allocated, for example, `disk: 4096` in a MySQL service in `services.yaml` and also `disk: 4096` in the `.platform.app.yaml` for your application, while only having the minimum default of 5GB storage for your project as a whole.  The solution is either to lower the `disk` parameters to within the limits of 5GB of storage, or raise the global storage parameter on your project's settings to at least 10GB.  

> Because storage is a billable component of your project, only the project's owner can effect this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because storage is a billable component of your project, only the project's owner can make this change.
```

I think this was pre-existing, but "effect this change" is very clumsy English so let's fix it while we're here.

## Low disk space

When you receive a [low-disk space notification](/administrtion/integrations/notifications.md) for your application container: 

### Check your application's disk space

> Run `platform ssh` within your project folder.
> 
> Check the available writable space for your application, using `df`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `platform ssh` within your project folder to login to the container's shell.  Then use the `df` command to check the available writable space for your application.
```

```
df -h -x tmpfs -x squashfs | grep -v /run/shared
```

This command will show the writable mounts on the system, similar to:

```
Filesystem                                                       Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/mapper/platform-syd7waxqy4n5q--master--7rqtwti----app       2.0G   37M  1.9G   2% /mnt
/dev/mapper/platform-tmp--syd7waxqy4n5q--master--7rqtwti----app  3.9G   42M  3.8G   2% /tmp
```

> * The first entry shows the storage device that is shared by all of your `persistent disk mount`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The first entry shows the storage device that is shared by all of your persistent disk mounts.
```

Reviewer: Which is the "first entry"?  You mean the first column, or first line?  This is unclear.

  While `Mounted on` reports the disk space common to [all defined mounts](/configuration/app/storage.md#mounts) in a single pool, it only shows one directory path.
  

>   In this example, the application container has allocated 2 GB of the total disk space. From those 2GB available for the application, a 2% (37 MB) is used by all defined mounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In this example, the application container has allocated 2 GB of the total disk space. From those 2GB available for the application, 2% (37 MB) is used by all defined mounts.
```

* The second entry is the operating system `temporary directory`, which is always the same size.

>   While you can write to the `/tmp` directory files there are not guaranteed to persist and may be deleted on deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first line shows the storage device that is used by all of your [defined mounts](/configuration/app/storage.md#mounts).  It is a single storage pool shared by all mounts.  In this example, the application container has allocated 2 GB of the total disk space. Of those 2GB available, 2% (37 MB) is used by all defined mounts collectively.

The second entry is the operating system `temporary directory`, which is always 4 GB.  While you can write to the `/tmp` directory files there are not guaranteed to persist and may be deleted on deploy.
```

Reviewer: Restructured this section to be clearer and less repetitive.

### Increase the disk space available

> The sum of all disk keys defined in your project's `.platform.app.yaml` and `.platform/services.yaml` files must be _equal or less_ than the _platform storage_ size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sum of all disk keys defined in your project's `.platform.app.yaml` and `.platform/services.yaml` files must be equal or less than the available storage in your plan.
```

1. Buy extra storage for your project

>   Each project comes with 5GB of Disk Storage available. To increase the disk space available for your project, click on "Edit Plan" to increase your storage in bulks of 5GB.  See [Extra Storage](/overview/pricing.md#extra-storage) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Each project comes with 5GB of Disk Storage available to each environment. To increase the disk space available for your project, click on "Edit Plan" to increase your storage in bulks of 5GB.  See [Extra Storage](/overview/pricing.md#extra-storage) for more information.
```

Reviewer: People confuse that often.

2. Increase your application and services disk space

  Once you have enough storage available, you can increase the disk space allocated for your application and services using `disk` keys in your `.platform.app.yaml` and `.platform/services.yaml`. 
  
  Check the following resources for more details:

   - [Application's disk space](/configuration/app/storage.md#disk)
   - [Services' disk space](/configuration/services.md#disk)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
